README.md, before:

# 3D printed 40 percent ortholinear raspberry pi pico based mechanical keyboard

![keyboard](./images/keyboard.jpg)

## You will need

- 3D printer
- Raspberry Pi Pico
- 47 Cherry MX compatible switches
- Optional - 1 Cherry MX compatible stabilizer (as the spacebar is only 2U size, it is not neccesary to have a stabilizer there)
- 47 keycaps (can be also printed if you want to)
- 47 1N4148 diodes
- some wire
- soldering iron
- a lot of patience

*Tip: if you are cheap like me, you can harvest most of the parts from a cheap second hand mechanical keyboard*

## Build

1. Print the base plate from `parts/base_plate`

*The printed parts are unfinished and do not fit precisely. Consider printing another model - mentioned in section sources - or designing your own. If you have a good model, feel free to file a PR for it. The photos in this manual are from the first iteration of prints.*

![base_plate](./images/base_plate.jpg)

2. Assemble all the switches and stabilizer to the base plate

![switches](./images/switches.jpg)

*I did not use the stabilizers in the end, as the 2U spacebar works just fine without them.*

3. Solder diodes to the switches and connect them in a row as shown in picture below

![diodes](./images/diodes.jpg)

4. Solder wires to the rows of diodes and route them to one place

![wires](./images/wires.jpg)

5. Solder wires to the switches in columns as shown in picture below

![wires](./images/wires2.jpg)

6. Choose your GPIO pins on the pico based on your firmware in `pins.py` and solder the wires to the pico

![pico](./images/pico.jpg)

7. Print the case from `parts/case` and carefully put the keyboard and pico inside

- I wrapped the pico in electrical tape to prevent short circuits inside the keyboard.

*Currently in its second generation, the case still does not fit correctly, I modified the second prototype with
side cutters and the case works with zip ties. If I get around to another model and print, I will update this repo.*

## Flashing the firmware

1. Install circutpython on your pico
2. Copy the `adafruit_hid` folder to the `lib` folder on pico.
3. Modify your keymaps in `keymaps.py`
4. Copy the `keymaps.py`, `pins.py` and `code.py` files to the pico.
5. When you are done testing your firmware, you can copy the file called `boot.py` to your pico to prevent it appearing as
a usb drive on your pc.

## Sources

- Firmware is based on this tutorial: https://learn.adafruit.com/diy-pico-mechanical-keyboard-with-fritzing-circuitpython/code-the-pico-keyboard
- I ended up using this another model for the keyboard body instead the one provided in this repo: https://www.printables.com/model/345568-fortyorty

Commit message:

Update to tutorial only, remove bad stl files

README.md, after:

# 3D printed 40 percent ortholinear raspberry pi pico based mechanical keyboard

![keyboard](./images/keyboard.jpg)

## You will need

- 3D printer
- Raspberry Pi Pico
- 40 Cherry MX compatible switches
- 40 keycaps (can be also printed if you want to)
- 40 1N4148 diodes
- some wire
- soldering iron
- a lot of patience

*Tip: if you are cheap like me, you can harvest most of the parts from a cheap second hand mechanical keyboard*

## Build

1. Print the case from  `https://www.printables.com/model/345568-fortyorty`

*The printed parts in the photos are unfinished prototype later replaced with the model mentioned above.
If you make a good 3d model for this keyboard, feel free to file a PR for it.*

![base_plate](./images/base_plate.jpg)

2. Assemble all the switches and stabilizer to the base plate

![switches](./images/switches.jpg)

*I did not use the stabilizers in the end, as the 2U spacebar works just fine without them.*

3. Solder diodes to the switches and connect them in a row as shown in picture below.

- You can also use another wire to connect the diodes in a row instead of connecting them directly.

![diodes](./images/diodes.jpg)

4. Solder wires to the rows of diodes and route them to one place

![wires](./images/wires.jpg)

5. Solder wires to the switches in columns as shown in picture below

![wires](./images/wires2.jpg)

6. Choose your GPIO pins on the pico based on your firmware in `pins.py` and solder the wires to the pico

![pico](./images/pico.jpg)

7. Carefully put the pico inside the keyboard.

- I wrapped the pico in electrical tape to prevent short circuits inside the keyboard.

## Flashing the firmware

1. Install circutpython on your pico
2. Copy the `adafruit_hid` folder to the `lib` folder on pico.
3. Modify your keymaps in `keymaps.py`
4. Copy the `keymaps.py`, `pins.py` and `code.py` files to the pico.
5. When you are done testing your firmware, you can copy the file called `boot.py` to your pico to prevent it appearing as
a usb drive on your pc.

## Sources

- Firmware is based on this tutorial: https://learn.adafruit.com/diy-pico-mechanical-keyboard-with-fritzing-circuitpython/code-the-pico-keyboard
- I ended up using this model for the keyboard body instead creating my own: https://www.printables.com/model/345568-fortyorty
